Now we've come to the end of this section of the course and it's time for another bug hunt.
You guessed it.
I'm sure that you were super excited for this bug.
Throughout the entire section.
Well here you go.
All right.
So just as a quick reminder The idea is that there's a bunch of code here and every one of these cells
of code contains at least one mistake or at least one problem with the code.
So your job is to pause the video go through all of the code here and fix every cell to make sure that
every cell works.
Now sometimes there are explicit coding errors that you have to find and fix.
Sometimes there's not really an error per say but the plot just isn't really what it probably should
have been.
And so you have to figure out what it should be do a little bit of guesswork.
OK.
So now is your last opportunity to pause the video because now I'm going to start going through this
now.
My strategy here is just to start by running every single cell in turn and see what the error message
is and see if I can figure out what to do from there.
OK.
So I'm going to start by running this code here and we get an error that says the name P L T is not
defined so clearly peel t is referring to map plot lib dot plotting and that is not yet loaded into
the python workspace.
I'm going to click insert insert cell above and here I'm going to import all the modules and functions
that I'm going to use throughout this script.
So import met plot lib dot plotting as P LTE.
Whoops that was that was an unintentional mistake.
So this is actually pi plot.
Let's see pi plots.
Yep there you go.
Okay.
So that will certainly fix this error and let's see what else is going on.
More errors.
Objects of type in.
No no.
Okay.
So this is not really an interpretable error message in the sense that you know sometimes you see these
error messages and they're very informative.
They tell you exactly what the problem is.
In this case it's a little bit difficult but at least we see which line is causing the problem.
And here the way that we are actually using this method here it looks like we're importing four distinct
inputs when in fact what we really need to do is just provide one input which is a list of numbers.
Okay.
So that looks pretty good there.
So let's go on to the next one.
Plot a line.
Okay.
This doesn't seem so bad.
Looks like we're plotting a line that goes from x com x 2 3 5.
So from the origin to the point three comma five huh.
And this is invalid syntax.
And this also gives us a little carat symbol to tell us exactly where the problem is.
Now the issue is that in Python a list has two or the elements of a list must be separated by commas
like this not by spaces.
So that was the problem here and I always see a line that goes from the origin 0 0 up to three comma
five.
All right.
So let's see what's going on here.
OK.
That's pretty friendly.
So we already have the import num Pi.
And P. however now there's of course nothing wrong with this.
It's fine.
But I think it's better programming style to remove the the module importing from individual cells that
are kind of halfway through the file and organize them all at the top.
So I think this is better although the way it was before wasn't really incorrect.
OK.
So let's see what's going on here.
So we specify some range of values so some integer values for x and then Y gets initialized to be zeros.
That's the same length of X.
And here we set each element of Y to these some function of x in particular to minus X squared.
And then we plot.
So this kind of looks OK.
Let's see.
Unsupported upper and tight for.
OK.
So this is also not the most informative error message in the world but when you look through this for
loop carefully you can see that each element of that we are defining each element of Y individually
within this loop.
So that means we also need to be accessing X element y's and not the entire range.
All right.
So now that looks good there's no more error messages.
So I think we have solved the problem in this cell.
OK.
So here it looks like we're trying to show two lines.
So there's lists and there's commas in between them so that's good.
We have two different colors and then huh OK so here's a case where there's no explicit error messages
and we did get the two lines.
However it looks like we want to plot a legend and we get this warning message that says no handles
with labels found and then there's like a little window here.
This is where the legend should be.
So actually there isn't really an error here per say except that Python sees that we are trying to activate
a legend but there is no labels in the legend.
So what I'm going to do is write comma label equals let's call this line one because I don't really
know what else to call these line two.
All right.
And now we get this nice friendly legend here all right.
So let's go to the next one here.
Let's see if we can already figure out a bit about what we're trying to accomplish in this code.
So we generate a matrix of random numbers using num pi random and it's a five by nine matrix of normally
distributed random numbers and then it looks like we're trying to draw a line that would go from the
lower left corner to the upper right corner.
That's gonna be a line that goes across like this.
All right.
So let's run this cells see what happens.
Oh we already get a long long long long message.
Okay.
This says unknown property line width huh.
So the first thing that I'm going to guess is that maybe we just misspelled this.
Maybe there is no underscore and it's just one word line width.
All right.
So that was pretty good.
So now we have our matrix of random numbers.
It's five by nine as specified here.
And to illustrate that this really is a matrix of random numbers.
We can try running this code over and over again and you can see that the size is always the same but
the colors are changing because those correspond to random numbers.
All right.
So now this line here this is definitely not going from the lower left corner to the upper right corner.
So what could be the problem here do appreciate what is going wrong here.
You can remember what I mentioned in the video on making images out of matrices.
And that is that matrices are organized as rows first and then columns.
So these are the rows which are in the first dimension but they actually correspond to the y axis versus
the columns which are in the second dimension of the matrix but they correspond to the x axis.
So therefore if you're trying to plot a line using indices into matrices you actually need to swap the
y coordinates and the x coordinates if that feels a bit mysterious and you might want to refer back
to the video on making images out of matrices.
Okay.
So let's try this again.
Aha.
And now this looks really nice.
Now I think the color scheme is perfect here.
Lots of nice deep purples and lavender is but of course you are free to play around with these color
values remember these are a G B for mixing red green and blue colors.
All right.
So I'm gonna say this one is completely fixed.
Let's go on to the next one here.
So it looks like we're plotting two lines and so far everything looks good.
We have the legend we turn the legend on and then there are in fact labels for line one in line two.
So let's see what's going on here.
OK.
So we get the two lines that part seems fine but when you look at the legend here this says oh and n
whereas the label here says line 1 and Line 2.
So what is going on here.
Actually what's going on here is that this legend here the way that I'm calling this legend I'm actually
overwriting these labels that are specified in here.
So you can see oh n is for these two.
So in fact to activate the legend you don't need to provide any inputs.
It will take the inputs that were specified up here with this label option.
Now that said that does illustrate some interesting property of the legend method here.
So in fact you can input a list into P.L. T dot legend and to make sure that this is let's call this
line a and line B just to show you that whatever you write in here is going to overwrite whatever gets
listed here.
In fact I'm even going to delete these labels here to show you that that still works.
Now either way that you want to set up the legend is totally fine.
Just make sure that you're doing it either this way specifying the labels or you're doing it this way.
If you do it both ways then you're not going to see any errors or warnings and you might be getting
the incorrect result.
All right.
Let's move on.
OK.
So here it looks like we have a function x squared divided by X minus two and we're evaluating that
between 1 and 4 and then making a plot and setting the Axis.
Okay.
So we do get the plot which looks kind of nice.
And now this is giving us an index error to many indices for array.
So the problem is happening in this line and here actually it turns out this is an indexing problem.
We actually just need to make sure that this is a list that's accessing the elements inside vector x.
So it looks a little funny with the double square brackets here.
But this is the way to access multiple individually specified items within a vector or within a num
pi array like this.
OK.
Another problem solved.
Let's move on.
All right.
So here we are using the simple tool toolbox to generate a symbolic function x squared minus three x
and then it looks like we are evaluating this or plotting this.
It looks like we're plotting a bunch of dots and then setting the Axis label.
OK.
So we run this and now.
So first of all simplify module hasn't been imported yet so I'm going to scroll all the way back up
here and write import simplify as Sim and then I run this cell and now I will be able to access the
simplify module.
Let's see that was here.
OK.
So now the error says add object is not callable.
And essentially the problem here is that we are trying to access this element of Y as if y were a function
that we were calling.
But why isn't a function.
It's a symbolic variable.
So what we want to do here is not try to call this simple object as if it were a function but instead
substitute for the variable x this variable X in here a particular value from X range.
So there you will recall from when I taught you about using simple that the correct syntax is why dot
subs and then we want to substitute for X the value of x range for the ISIS element.
Okay.
So let's see if that works.
All right.
So now we get this pretty nice looking function that shows us x squared minus three x which in fact
you can also see written out in nicely latex code here on the y axis.
All right.
We are making good progress here.
Okay.
So here it looks like we are trying to plot a line Y equals M X plus B that's the standard slope intercept
form for a line huh.
But now we get this error message that says can only can cat Nate list to list not end.
So here the issue is that X is stated as a list I've created X to be a list.
But this procedure this operation works only if Y is a num pi array so I'm going to convert this into
a num pi array.
And now we get the line that we expected.
And this also seems reasonable.
You can see that the intercept is one.
So when x equals zero right.
Well I guess it's hard to see exactly where it is.
But if you like I encourage you to add a grid or add some lines at the Y equals zero and x equals zero
line to confirm what should be present from these parameters.
Okay so let's go down.
All right.
Let's see.
Here we are specifying some range of x from minus 20 into plus 20.
And then it looks like we're plotting a line that goes from 0 to x and 0 to the absolute value of the
square root of the absolute value of x and specifying some line color.
All right.
Let's see what the problem is here.
Okay.
First of all we say invalid syntax.
So it's already in Peel team.
Now sometimes when you see this message invalid syntax and it's happening at a line of code that doesn't
obviously look wrong.
One thing to consider is whether you are missing some parentheses somewhere.
So let's go through all of these parentheses.
I'm going to look at these square brackets that seems right.
These square brackets seem right.
This oh look at this.
We have the parentheses here that ends the line color.
This list for the line color.
But that means there's actually no end parentheses for this P.L. teed up plot.
And in fact when I click next to it you can see it turns red instead of turning green.
All right.
So we are missing a parentheses.
I sometimes wonder how many hours of programmer's lives are lost due to just finding and fixing these
kinds of bugs.
All right.
So that gave us a whole new problem with a really long error message.
But again the problem is unknown property line color.
All right.
And we know how to fix this one.
It's actually one word.
Line color.
Oh there's still another error message.
Let's see.
Huh.
Unknown property line.
OK.
So it's still not called line color.
So it's not line color with an underscore.
It's not line color without an underscore.
Maybe I'm gonna look up the help file for appeal D dot plot.
So let me scroll down and see if I can find some thing Look at that.
It's actually just called color.
It's not called line color.
All right.
So it's just color like that OK.
And now there's even.
OK.
So first while we get a plot already so that's pretty nice.
Now this says unrecognized string of to access try on or off.
Oh right.
This was a simple typo.
It should be axis off.
Not axis of all right.
Now this.
Not only do we get the code right but we get this really beautiful plot.
This looks really nice.
Now we get down to looks like the final bug hunt that we have to solve.
Okay so draw a checkerboard with purple numbers on top.
You can see purple is a recurring theme around here.
Okay so we initialize some matrix of zeros create the checker board.
This is using a formula that I showed in a previous video about making images out of matrices and then
we plot some text on here.
Okay.
Let's just see what this thing looks like.
So first of all there is no error messages no warning messages.
So that's pretty good.
But now the problem is that the checker board looks like this.
So it's this kind of tall looking matrix checkerboard but the numbers are organized in a wide matrix
like this.
Okay.
And the solution here is actually the same as the solution to a problem with drawing the Purple Line
on the purple matrix that I showed earlier and that is that you have to swap the Y and X coordinates
because rows correspond to the y axis and columns correspond to the x axis.
Okay.
So now this looks good.
Now it's also interesting I'm introducing you to a little bit of new code here so I haven't showed you
this code yet.
This is a way to specify optional parameters for the text and in this case I am creating the color I'm
specifying that the colors should be magenta instead of the default.
Not sure what the default color is maybe it's black.
Let's see.
Oh yeah.
So the default color is black but then we miss half of the colors.
Okay so obviously this is a much nicer color.
It's also interesting to see the patterns.
Here we go.
0 3 7 and then 1 through 8 2 3 9 and 3 through 10.
All right.
So congratulations on finishing this bug hunt.
I hope you enjoyed it.
I hope you found it fun and also educational and that also finishes up this section of the course on
graphing in Python.
Stay tuned because the next section of the course is going to be really exciting.
You're going to learn all about using Python to help you learn algebra.
See you then.